Welcome, friends and enemies, to the first
ever Frontend Masters Svelte workshop.
I'm your instructor, Rich, and
we've got a full day ahead of us.
I hope you're ready.
I am gonna be reading from this website,
which is svelte-workshop.netlify.app.
I recommend that you open that website
on your own browser because it contains
useful links that we're gonna be working
through as the course progresses.
After the course ends, this is gonna
live on as a companion resource.
It lives on GitHub.
So issues and pull requests are welcome,
if there are any changes or
any fixes that you spot that need making.
But other than that, let's get into it.
So about this workshop.
The idea is that we're
gonna go from assuming that
you have absolutely no knowledge
about Svelte whatsoever,
to being able to build a fully dynamically
server-rendered progressively enhanced,
personalized, interactive application.
And we're gonna deploy that all
in the space of a few hours.
It's gonna happen in four parts.
We're gonna have the introduction where
I'm gonna explain what Svelte is,
why you might consider using it.
Then we're gonna have a series of short,
interactive exercises so
that you become familiar with
the syntax of a Svelte component and
you understand what features Svelte has.
And then from there we're gonna use
that knowledge to build a simple game.
And finally, the main part of the course,
we're gonna build that
application that I mentioned.
It's a lot to get through,
but I think we can do it.
So who am I?
I'm the creator of Svelte.
I created it back in 2016, a lifetime ago.
My job is in the news business.
I've spent my adult life working
in news organizations using
JavaScript to help tell stories in ways
that are more interactive and data-driven.
Right now, I'm a member of
the New York Times graphics department.
That's the day job,
by night I prowl the streets of GitHub
committing acts of open source.
And I'm on Twitter @rich_harris.
You can find me at that link and
message me and learn more about Svelte.
I wanna take a quick
moment to thank everyone
involved in producing this course, Mark
and the whole team at Frontend Masters.
I wanna thank our friends at Codesmith who
are providing the space
that we're in right now.
The Svelte community of users and
contributors, or Svelte Society,
as we call ourselves, or
if you're a fan of the Svelte loader.
And I wanna thank you for being here.
A little bit of housekeeping.
I am gonna be using Visual Studio Code.
It's a very popular editor.
If you're not using it,
I highly recommend it.
There's a download link on the website.
And we're gonna need to install
the Svelte Beta extension.
That provides you with syntax
highlighting and also completion and
all the rest of it.
There are two Svelte extensions
in the VSCode extension store.
One of them is just called Svelte.
That's the one that's been deprecated,
the current one is called Svelte Beta, and
that is gonna take over from
the current Svelte extension.
A little bit confusing, and that will
probably change in a few months, but for
now install Svelte Beta.
And for the final part of this workshop,
we're gonna be using some
free online services that you
will need to sign up for.
The first of these is Fauna,
which is a cloud database.
We're gonna be using Auth0 for
authentication.
We're gonna be using
an API called Weatherbit,
which is gonna give us weather data.
And that one, it will take a little
bit to provision the API key.
So I recommend that you do
that now while I'm talking.
And finally,
if you wanna deploy the app as we build
it, then we'll need to use Vercel.
So you sign up for
a free account with Vercel and
download the Vercel command
line interface for deploying.